docs/scheduling.md, before:

# Monitor Scheduling & Queue Strategy

This document captures the lightweight scheduling approach we will implement before deciding whether to add Redis/BullMQ or other infrastructure. The goal is to keep Supabase/ Postgres as the single source of truth while maintaining a clean seam to swap in a different queue later.

## Overview

1. **Monitors table metadata** – Each monitor stores `next_check_at`, `interval_minutes`, `last_check_id`, and `last_status`. Whenever we run a check we update these columns so the database knows when the next run is due.
2. **`pending_checks` table** – A Postgres queue that stores one row per scheduled job. Columns include `monitor_id`, `org_id`, `scheduled_for`, `attempts`, `locked_at`, and `lock_id`. Jobs stay in this table until a worker finishes them or marks them failed.
3. **Supabase Cron (every minute)** – Runs a SQL function that finds due monitors and inserts rows into `pending_checks` while bumping `next_check_at += interval`. Cron executions are free on Supabase and live entirely inside the database.
4. **Worker process** – A Node script (planned under `apps/worker`) that polls `pending_checks` using `FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED`, processes the job with `runBaselineCheck()`, writes to `checks`, updates the monitor, and removes the row (or reschedules on failure). The worker uses the service-role key so it can bypass RLS safely.
   declare

## Supabase Cron Function

The function lives at `supabase/functions/enqueue_due_checks.sql`. Deploy it with `supabase db push --file supabase/functions/enqueue_due_checks.sql` (or `supabase db execute < file`). The `pending_checks_monitor_unique` index from `supabase/migrations/0004_pending_checks_unique.sql` must exist so the `on conflict` clause works.

```sql
create or replace function public.enqueue_due_checks(max_jobs integer default 200)
returns integer
language plpgsql
as $$
declare
  inserted_count integer;
begin
  with due as (
    select id, org_id, interval_minutes
    from public.monitors
    where enabled = true
      and coalesce(next_check_at, now()) <= now()
    order by next_check_at nulls first
    limit max_jobs
    for update skip locked
  ), inserted as (
    insert into public.pending_checks (monitor_id, org_id, scheduled_for)
    select id, org_id, now()
    from due
    on conflict (monitor_id) do nothing
    returning monitor_id
  ), bumped as (
    update public.monitors m
      set next_check_at = greatest(coalesce(m.next_check_at, now()), now()) + (m.interval_minutes || ' minutes')::interval
    from due
    where m.id = due.id
    returning m.id
  )
  select count(*)
  into inserted_count
  from inserted;

  return coalesce(inserted_count, 0);
end;
$$;
```

Schedule it in Supabase Studio → **Integrations → Cron**:

1. Enable the pg_cron integration if it isn’t already active.
2. Click “New Cron Job”, choose **SQL snippet**, and paste `select public.enqueue_due_checks();`
3. Set the cron expression to `* * * * *` so it runs every minute.

CLI alternative (once pg_cron is enabled):

```bash
supabase db remote commit \
  --name enqueue-monitor-checks \
  --schedule "* * * * *" \
  --sql "select public.enqueue_due_checks();"
```

## Worker Flow

1. Poll for jobs: `select * from pending_checks where scheduled_for <= now() and locked_at is null order by scheduled_for limit N for update skip locked;`
2. Mark as locked: set `locked_at = now(), lock_id = gen_random_uuid()` to prevent other workers from touching it.
3. Run `runBaselineCheck()` with the monitor’s URL/mode/selector and capture metrics.
4. Insert a new `checks` row, update the monitor (`last_status`, `last_checked_at`, `last_success_at`, `last_check_id`, `next_check_at`)
5. Delete the `pending_checks` row. On failure, increment `attempts`, set `error_message`, and schedule retry (e.g., `scheduled_for = now() + interval '5 minutes'`) up to a max attempt count.

## Scaling & Swap Path

- Because everything is orchestrated in SQL, we can scale horizontally by running multiple worker instances; `FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED` ensures each job runs once.
- If/when we outgrow Postgres for queuing, the worker already isolates “job fetch” logic. Replacing the `pending_checks` reader with BullMQ/SQS/etc. won’t change the normalization/diff code.
- Supabase cron remains useful even with an external queue: it can still mark `next_check_at` and push jobs to the new backend via HTTP functions if needed.

## Operational Notes

- Monitor creation already seeds `next_check_at` based on the baseline. The cron function simply keeps pushing the schedule forward.
- Workers must run with the Supabase service-role key and manually scope queries by `org_id` where appropriate.
- Add metrics/logging (e.g., console output or a lightweight APM) in the worker so we can monitor stuck jobs.

## Worker Hosting Options

| Host                          | Est. cost               | Pros                                          | Considerations                         |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| Fly.io shared-cpu-1x          | ~$5/mo                  | Simple scaling, health checks, global regions | Needs Dockerfile, keep instance awake  |
| Railway                       | Free dev tier, then ~$5 | Git integration, ephemeral previews           | Sleeps on inactivity unless paid       |
| Render background worker      | ~$7/mo                  | Auto-redeploy, metrics/logs built in          | Slightly higher floor cost             |
| Supabase Edge Functions       | $0                      | Already provisioned in project                | Too short-lived for continuous polling |
| Self-hosted VM (DO/Lightsail) | $5/mo                   | Full control, predictable cost                | Manual updates/monitoring              |

Pick the host that matches budget + ops comfort. Worker only needs `DATABASE_URL`, so even tiny instances work. Use `npm run start --workspace workers` for 24/7 polling or hook that command to an external scheduler.

Next actions: keep `enqueue_due_checks()` wired to cron, provision one worker instance (start with Fly.io or Railway), and add a smoke test monitor to verify the queue drains end-to-end.

Commit message:

feat: week3 snapshots and dashboard

docs/scheduling.md, after:

# Monitor Scheduling & Queue Strategy

This document captures the lightweight scheduling approach we will implement before deciding whether to add Redis/BullMQ or other infrastructure. The goal is to keep Supabase/ Postgres as the single source of truth while maintaining a clean seam to swap in a different queue later.

## Overview

1. **Monitors table metadata** – Each monitor stores `next_check_at`, `interval_minutes`, `last_check_id`, and `last_status`. Whenever we run a check we update these columns so the database knows when the next run is due.
2. **`pending_checks` table** – A Postgres queue that stores one row per scheduled job. Columns include `monitor_id`, `org_id`, `scheduled_for`, `attempts`, `locked_at`, and `lock_id`. Jobs stay in this table until a worker finishes them or marks them failed.
3. **Supabase Cron (every minute)** – Runs a SQL function that finds due monitors and inserts rows into `pending_checks` while bumping `next_check_at += interval`. Cron executions are free on Supabase and live entirely inside the database.
4. **Worker process** – A Node script (planned under `apps/worker`) that polls `pending_checks` using `FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED`, processes the job with `runBaselineCheck()`, writes to `checks`, updates the monitor, and removes the row (or reschedules on failure). The worker uses the service-role key so it can bypass RLS safely.
   declare

## Supabase Cron Function

The function lives at `supabase/functions/enqueue_due_checks.sql`. Deploy it with `supabase db push --file supabase/functions/enqueue_due_checks.sql` (or `supabase db execute < file`). The `pending_checks_monitor_unique` index from `supabase/migrations/0004_pending_checks_unique.sql` must exist so the `on conflict` clause works.

```sql
create or replace function public.enqueue_due_checks(max_jobs integer default 200)
returns integer
language plpgsql
as $$
declare
  inserted_count integer;
begin
  with due as (
    select id, org_id, interval_minutes
    from public.monitors
    where enabled = true
      and coalesce(next_check_at, now()) <= now()
    order by next_check_at nulls first
    limit max_jobs
    for update skip locked
  ), inserted as (
    insert into public.pending_checks (monitor_id, org_id, scheduled_for)
    select id, org_id, now()
    from due
    on conflict (monitor_id) do nothing
    returning monitor_id
  ), bumped as (
    update public.monitors m
      set next_check_at = greatest(coalesce(m.next_check_at, now()), now()) + (m.interval_minutes || ' minutes')::interval
    from due
    where m.id = due.id
    returning m.id
  )
  select count(*)
  into inserted_count
  from inserted;

  return coalesce(inserted_count, 0);
end;
$$;
```

Schedule it in Supabase Studio → **Integrations → Cron**:

1. Enable the pg_cron integration if it isn’t already active.
2. Click “New Cron Job”, choose **SQL snippet**, and paste `select public.enqueue_due_checks();`
3. Set the cron expression to `* * * * *` so it runs every minute.

CLI alternative (once pg_cron is enabled):

```bash
supabase db remote commit \
  --name enqueue-monitor-checks \
  --schedule "* * * * *" \
  --sql "select public.enqueue_due_checks();"
```

## Worker Flow

1. Poll for jobs: `select * from pending_checks where scheduled_for <= now() and locked_at is null order by scheduled_for limit N for update skip locked;`
2. Mark as locked: set `locked_at = now(), lock_id = gen_random_uuid()` to prevent other workers from touching it.
3. Run `runBaselineCheck()` with the monitor’s URL/mode/selector and capture metrics.
4. Insert a new `checks` row, update the monitor (`last_status`, `last_checked_at`, `last_success_at`, `last_check_id`, `next_check_at`)
5. Delete the `pending_checks` row. On failure, increment `attempts`, set `error_message`, and schedule retry (e.g., `scheduled_for = now() + interval '5 minutes'`) up to a max attempt count.

### Week 3+ Snapshot & Change Event Storage

To support richer diffs and future premium summaries we will add a tier-aware storage path:

- `monitor_snapshots` table references `checks.id` and holds raw HTML (or a storage pointer), normalized text, content hash, and capture metadata. Workers only persist these blobs for monitors whose org plan includes detailed insights.
- `change_events` table links `prev_snapshot_id` and `next_snapshot_id`, stores the computed diff summary, severity, and structured metadata. Dashboard feeds will read from here instead of inferring from `monitors.last_change_at`.
- `change_blocks` (optional follow-up) captures block-level actions (added/removed/edited) so we can eventually say “New job posting added” without reprocessing old snapshots. This table is only populated for higher tiers to control CPU/storage costs.
- Retention is enforced nightly per tier (e.g., keep 30 days for Standard, 90+ for Premium) so storage stays predictable.

The worker will check plan flags before inserting snapshots or block data, meaning lower tiers continue to run lightweight checks while higher tiers automatically accrue the extra context needed for AI/semantic summaries later.

## Scaling & Swap Path

- Because everything is orchestrated in SQL, we can scale horizontally by running multiple worker instances; `FOR UPDATE SKIP LOCKED` ensures each job runs once.
- If/when we outgrow Postgres for queuing, the worker already isolates “job fetch” logic. Replacing the `pending_checks` reader with BullMQ/SQS/etc. won’t change the normalization/diff code.
- Supabase cron remains useful even with an external queue: it can still mark `next_check_at` and push jobs to the new backend via HTTP functions if needed.

## Operational Notes

- Monitor creation already seeds `next_check_at` based on the baseline. The cron function simply keeps pushing the schedule forward.
- Workers must run with the Supabase service-role key and manually scope queries by `org_id` where appropriate.
- Add metrics/logging (e.g., console output or a lightweight APM) in the worker so we can monitor stuck jobs.

## Worker Hosting Options

| Host                          | Est. cost               | Pros                                          | Considerations                         |
| ----------------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| Fly.io shared-cpu-1x          | ~$5/mo                  | Simple scaling, health checks, global regions | Needs Dockerfile, keep instance awake  |
| Railway                       | Free dev tier, then ~$5 | Git integration, ephemeral previews           | Sleeps on inactivity unless paid       |
| Render background worker      | ~$7/mo                  | Auto-redeploy, metrics/logs built in          | Slightly higher floor cost             |
| Supabase Edge Functions       | $0                      | Already provisioned in project                | Too short-lived for continuous polling |
| Self-hosted VM (DO/Lightsail) | $5/mo                   | Full control, predictable cost                | Manual updates/monitoring              |

Pick the host that matches budget + ops comfort. Worker only needs `DATABASE_URL`, so even tiny instances work. Use `npm run start --workspace workers` for 24/7 polling or hook that command to an external scheduler.

Next actions: keep `enqueue_due_checks()` wired to cron, provision one worker instance (start with Fly.io or Railway), and add a smoke test monitor to verify the queue drains end-to-end.
